---
path: '/blog/what-is-backend-as-a-service-baas/'
layout: post
title: What is "Backend as a Service?"
date: 2014-08-04 11:21:29
author: sara
categories: ['Backend as a Service']
image: sync.png
summary: "Applications make up a vast, diverse, and growing market – but in some ways, applications are all very much alike. Certain features show up again and again: cloud storage, integration with social networks such as Twitter, Facebook, and Google Plus, push notifications from central servers, real-time sync, user management, etc. Any company that designs multiple apps will soon realize that much of their backend requires re-inventing the wheel with one integration after another. Backend as a Service (BaaS) eliminates that redundancy."
---
Applications make up a vast, diverse, and growing market – but in some ways, applications are all very much alike. Certain features show up again and again: cloud storage, integration with social networks such as Twitter, Facebook, and Google Plus, push notifications from central servers, real-time sync, user management, etc. Any company that designs multiple apps will soon realize that much of their backend requires re-inventing the wheel with one integration after another. Backend as a Service (BaaS) eliminates that redundancy.<!--more-->
<h2>BaaS outsources the commodified details of development so you can focus on what makes your app unique.</h2>
BaaS is unique from SaaS and PaaS because it focuses on saving backend development time. BaaS links your apps to cloud storage and high-performing APIs that handle tasks across a variety of services. Whether you're authenticating through Facebook or performing location-based calculations using Google Maps data, you can access the functionality without being an expert in the API syntax. That means more painless integration and time for you to focus on the core features of your app.
<h2>BaaS is a development accelerator.</h2>
Every additional service integration your app offers means a new API for your developers to learn, implement, and support. While service integrations are a big plus from a user experience standpoint, they can quickly eat up the resources of a development team. Implementing backend as a service abstracts these multiple APIs into a single point of integration. That means less development overhead, and less ongoing support. Onboarding new developers becomes easier, and you won't have to keep your people instantly up to date on API changes. BaaS also means less abandoned code if an integration should be dropped: the service has the flexibility to offer the integrations you need as you need them. Not only do the best backend as a service providers encapsulate their API integrations so that you're not working with the service calls directly, but they offer another important benefit...
<h2>BaaS handles points of failure.</h2>
Scalability and data security are major considerations for all developers, and can be difficult to predict during the development process. Backend as a service providers, however, have experience with load and security concerns at all levels of traffic and access. These plus API best practices are proven across a wide variety of applications, meaning that the service is robust enough to handle all kinds of scenarios.
<h2>BaaS is the future.</h2>
Although BaaS is fairly new, the ease, benefit, and reliability of using it has created great growth in the industry, shifting BaaS to a natural part of the app development process. Some providers like Syncano also support the Internet of Things and second screen technology — creating enormous opportunity for innovation in new spaces.