---
path: '/blog/how-to-create-a-cross-platform-app-in-minutes-with-appgyver-and-syncano/'
layout: post
title: How to Create a Cross-Platform App In Minutes with AppGyver and Syncano
date: 2014-07-02 11:21:29
author: resham
categories: ['Backend as a Service', 'How Tos', 'Real-Time Apps', 'Real-Time Sync']
image: appgyver-syncano.png
summary: "We’re always searching for new technologies to help you get your apps flipped faster, so when we found out what our friends at AppGyver were cooking up with Steroids, we had to share. AppGyver came up with an insightful solution to the problem of poor-functioning and limited HTML5 apps that were eclipsed by beautiful native applications. Steroids Hybrid UI allows you to include native user interface components in an HTML5 app using a basic JavaScript API. It doesn’t get easier (or more ingenious) than that. If creating an excellent cross-platform app is your goal, here’s how you can use AppGyver and Syncano together to create one that’s fully functional within minutes."
---
We're always searching for new technologies to help you get your apps flipped faster, so when we found out what our friends at <a href="http://www.appgyver.com">AppGyver</a> were cooking up with <a href="http://www.appgyver.com/steroids">Steroids</a>, we had to share. AppGyver came up with an insightful solution to the problem of poor-functioning and limited HTML5 apps that were eclipsed by beautiful native applications. Steroids Hybrid UI allows you to include native user interface components in an HTML5 app using a basic JavaScript API. It doesn't get easier (or more ingenious) than that. If creating an excellent cross-platform app is your goal, here's how you can use AppGyver and Syncano together to create one that's fully functional within minutes.<!--more-->
<h2><strong>1. Create your front-end with AppGyver</strong></h2>
Creating your app's front-end is quick, easy, and rather enjoyable with AppGyver's tools. They put the focus on creating a well-designed developer experience so that your app ideas can be launched and executed in a fun, user-friendly environment. AppGyver uses Hybrid UI to fill in coding gaps, making animations and features not well served by CSS or JavaScript really sing. AppGyver Steroids puts native navigation, side menus, animations, transitions, and (coming soon!) maps within easy reach. Meanwhile, the <a href="http://www.appgyver.com/composer">Composer</a> interface uses drag-and-drop functionality to help you generate gorgeous code and integrate APIs in the blink of an eye. The result is beautifully functioning HTML5 apps that look, feel, and function just as beautifully as native applications. Developers have access to everything they need to build an impressive cross-platform app and publish it to the various app stores. There are online tutorials available in the AppGyver Academy to help developers make a seamless transition to the AppGyver front-end app development platform.
<h2><strong>2. Add backend functionality and real-time synchronization with Syncano</strong></h2>
Once you're up and running with your newly built application, you'll need a top-tier BaaS solution to create a fully functional cross-platform experience and distinguish your users' experiences. <a href="www.syncano.io/features/">Syncano</a> provides backend cloud storage and a communication API that helps you real-time sync your data across devices, administer push notifications to your users, and manage both user and administrator permissions. With experience connecting enterprise clients and smaller consumer-led operations to the app-enriching world of BaaS, Syncano saves developers valuable time and money by linking them with a one-stop backend management service that is completely scalable and customizable for a number of apps. <span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.5em;">Creating a cross-platform real-time app is easier than you might imagine if you're ready to take advantage of smart tools and technologies. A powerful front-end tool partnered with a great BaaS will set you up for app creation domination.</span>