---
layout: post
title: 'How to Create Great Applications: 4 Rules to Follow'
date: 2014-06-18 11:21:29
author: thomas_hagner
categories: ['How Tos', 'Real-Time Sync']
share_image: /public/origin_4588410548.jpg
summary: "We believe the difference between good apps and great apps can be both a matter of small details and a matter of greater purpose. Today, users are demanding dynamic performance and a flawless cross platform user experience. Make your apps great by incorporating these four characteristics into your end product."
---
We believe the difference between good apps and <i>great</i> apps can be both a matter of small details and a matter of greater purpose. Today, users are demanding dynamic performance and a flawless cross platform user experience. Make your apps great by incorporating these four characteristics into your end product.<!--more-->
<h2><b>Make your UI fast, smooth, and beautiful.</b></h2>
Today's user interface needs to be a work of art and an exemplar of functionality all at once. Great apps have a user interface that looks attractive yet simple, and UI functionality needs to be seamless and hiccup-free under all circumstances. If load times are sluggish or if the screen freezes without explanation, the user might quit the app altogether.
<h2><b>Create a cross-platform user experience.</b></h2>
From multimedia entertainment to personal organization to file sharing and more, the most innovative apps are synchronized across multiple platforms. For your audience, this means an expectation of cross platform user experience with functionality and style that remain consistent from web to mobile to streaming television and everything in between.

When developers launch an exciting feature for one platform before it’s ready on others, the user experience suffers even though that feature may be truly useful and innovative. Great apps offer a fluid, intuitive environment. Letting users get accustomed to one platform and failing to provide similar functionality on other platforms causes disappointment and frustration.The most fantastic apps bring data and content together with real-time sync for a seamless experience across every device.
<h2><b>Optimize for mobile capabilities.</b></h2>
From conception to testing, a great app makes sure to embrace <span id="content_comment_plugin_1402502823717" class="content_comment_plugin_span_class" title="Should we try to make some of these phrases more &quot;dumbed down&quot; or &quot;easy to understand?&quot;  -----Agreed. Made changes to sentence throughout." data-commenttext="Should we try to make some of these phrases more &quot;dumbed down&quot; or &quot;easy to understand?&quot;  -----Agreed. Made changes to sentence throughout.">the strengths of mobile devices and offer value to mobile users specifically. <span id="content_comment_plugin_1402502823718" class="content_comment_plugin_span_class" title="I changed this here because I felt like this fit in better with &quot;exploits the strengths.&quot; We could delete the last sentence and just start here instead.   -----I see what you mean! Deleting the previous sentence did seem like the natural solution." data-commenttext="I changed this here because I felt like this fit in better with &quot;exploits the strengths.&quot; We could delete the last sentence and just start here instead.   -----I see what you mean! Deleting the previous sentence did seem like the natural solution.">This means integrating mobile capabilities like fast communication and location-based services. Social media integration should also be available (but not bombarding), and the user should have expected controls like search and cancel buttons. In short, the app should feel like a natural component of the mobile experience.</span></span>
<h2><b>Adapt, update, and reiterate.</b></h2>
Great apps move with us into the future, just like the technology that powers them. Even after thorough testing and hitting the market successfully, major changes should be expected (and welcomed!). Responsiveness to feedback and suggestions often determines whether the app stays popular over time. Adaptation can also mean finding flaws and missed opportunities of your current version and correcting them, or listening to what your most engaged users enjoy about the app and capitalizing on them.

<address> photo credit: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/atmtx/4588410548/">atmtx</a> via <a href="http://photopin.com">photopin</a> <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">cc</a></address>