---
layout: post
title: Introducing Syncano - A Real-Time Sync API and Storage Solution
date: 2014-03-17 11:21:29
author: sara_cowie
categories: ['News']
share_image: /public/Screen-Shot-2014-04-05-at-7.33.32-PM.png
summary: "Back in 2008, we were on the cusp of a real-time technology revolution, involved in creating user experiences that synced across mobile, TV, and even giant event screens in real-time."
---
<p dir="ltr">Back in 2008, we were on the cusp of a real-time technology revolution, involved in creating user experiences that synced across mobile, TV, and even <a href="http://vimeo.com/63690045">giant event screens in real-time</a>. <!--more-->We duplicated text and photo synchronization solutions for concerts, festivals, and television programming, when we realized the technologies we were using didn’t handle synchronization as well as they could have. Even though we didn’t see it yet, the world as we knew it was going to undergo a major transformation. Devices, screens, and everyday items would soon need to connect seamlessly with one another, and the world would need technology to allow developers to do so easily and efficiently.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Coincidentally, Apple released the iPhone (2007) and App Store (2008) - prompting a shift from a “web first” to “mobile first” era and resulting in huge changes for the development world. An entirely new category of business was born and developers and companies could now create user experiences that had never before been possible. As new devices were released to the market, APIs became increasingly important and developers shifted from creating unified experiences to integrated omni-platforms.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Now, we’re in what we like to call the “real-time” era, where humans require access to what they want, when they want it. We see it in the apps we use everyday, from social media accounts like Twitter to other applications like Seamless Web. Users expect their information (like recent tweets and lunch orders) to be immediately visible and synced from device to device without a wait time.</p>
<p dir="ltr">But creating applications that seamlessly sync users’ data across platforms isn’t easy. And although there are simple solutions, many apps have complex, structured data. Some aren’t merely web or mobile apps; they include a plethora of tangible objects in “the internet of things,” too. Our challenge then, was to create a complex solution to suit advanced needs but with an extraordinarily simple user experience - all while maintaining the quality, security, and speed developers require in today’s age.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Over the course of two years, we’ve finally created what we think is that solution. Syncano helps developers synchronize and scale structured data extraordinarily quickly and in real time, but it also allows developers to manage users’ access to data, create relationships between data, and store structured data on a secure, scalable, fast solution offered as a cloud service or a so called Backend as a Service.</p>
<p dir="ltr">With our platform and real-time sync API, we hope developers will be able to innovate and test faster, scale apps with ease, and have more time to focus on other things. More importantly, we want to enable the creation of beautiful, rich and truly real-time user experiences and bring forth the future of sync technology - a place where we’re able to interact and sync with everything around us.</p>
<p dir="ltr">With your help, we’ll be able to build a great product and become the widely trusted sync tool we envision Syncano to be - so developers everywhere can sync, store, and structure their data with ease. While we’re still in beta, we’re willing to give bonus codes to anyone who wants to try our product out and give us feedback. Just send your email through <a href="http://www.syncano.com/bonus/">this link </a>and we’ll make it happen.</p>
Until then, follow us on twitter <a href="http://www.twitter.com/syncano">@syncano</a> to get live updates on our progress.