---
path: '/blog/misconceptions-backend-as-a-service/'
layout: post
title: 4 Common Misconceptions About Backend As A Service
date: 2014-06-02 11:21:29
author: maciej
categories: ['Backend as a Service']
image: 11189692736_5ef65679be_b.jpg
summary: "Backend as a Service (BaaS) allows developers to focus on what really matters: innovation, user experience, and user acquisition. Yet despite the advantages BaaS has to offer, there are still some common misconceptions about the industry left over from the earliest days of its inception. Here’s a closer look at the top four."
---
<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto;">Backend as a Service (BaaS) allows developers to focus on what really matters: innovation, user experience, and user acquisition. Yet despite the advantages BaaS has to offer, there are still some common misconceptions about the industry left over from the earliest days of its inception. Here’s a closer look at the top four.<!--more--></p>

<h2 class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-outline-level: 2;"><b>1. It’s too expensive.</b></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-outline-level: 2;">A few years back, app developers had no choice but to spend valuable time and resources building a backend. Now, with <a href="http://readwrite.com/2013/01/07/apple-app-store-growing-by#awesm=~oGgUBITkZBEIoF" target="_blank">20,000 new apps on the App Store each month</a>, developers need solutions that are going to minimize time to launch and maximize user acquisition post-launch – all while keeping the cost as low as possible. A Backend as a Service can in many ways help maximize success while minimizing costs. It can help developers flip apps faster, open up time to focus on more important initiatives, and bring monetary success quicker without requiring extra staff. Plus, some <a href="http://www.syncano.com/pricing/" target="_blank">pay-per-use pricing models</a> mean you don't pay for your backend until you've significantly grown your user base – so you don't have to worry about making a huge initial capital investment before you start generating revenue.<b></b></p>

<h2 class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-outline-level: 2;"><b>2. It’s not secure.</b></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto;">Backend as a Service providers like Syncano take data security very seriously for all clients, especially those in markets like health and finance that must store confidential and sensitive information. Our platform uses two-key data encryption to mitigate any concerns over unauthorized access, and we're also working on achieving HIPAA compliance to support our clients within the healthcare industry.</p>

<h2 class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-outline-level: 2;"><b>3. It’s not scalable.</b></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto;">A Backend as a Service is as scalable as the cloud it's built on. Cloud storage providers such as <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/s3/" target="_blank">Amazon S3 </a>have practically unlimited storage, making the scalability of any platform built on top of it virtually limitless. Syncano's platform utilizes Amazon S3's unlimited storage and covers unpredictable growth in usage with a pricing structure that's built to grow as our clients grow.</p>

<h2 class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-outline-level: 2;"><b>4. It’s not flexible enough.</b></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto;">Great backend solutions include more than just data storage and push notifications; they offer a whole range of <a href="http://www.syncano.com/features/" target="_blank">features</a> to support robust, successful applications and APIs that make it easy to create fluid, beautiful user experiences. This includes real-time synchronization, data modeling, the ability to control who (and how) your data is accessed, full documentation for a number of programming languages, and seamless portability of your data from one platform to another (even to another Backend as a Service). You should never feel "stuck" to a platform that doesn't suit your needs.</p>